NIA busts Pak-sponsored al-Qaida module; 9 terrorists arrested from West Bengal, Kerala
Bharti Jain | TNN | Updated: Sep 19, 2020, 11:24 IST

1
6
NIA busts al-Qaida terror module in West Bengal, Kerala; arrests 9 operatives
NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday said it has busted a Pakistan-sponsored Al-Qaeda module planning to attack vital installations in India and being motivated to carry out terror strikes in multiple places including Delhi NCR. Nine terrorists including the leader of the module were arrested early on Saturday morning in simultaneous raids at Murshidabad in West Bengal and Ernakulam in Kerala.
As per the preliminary investigation, the nine arrested accused were radicalised by Pakistan-based Al-Qaeda terrorists on social media and motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places including Delhi National Capital Region. For this purpose, the module — led by Murshidabad resident Abu Sufiyan, who is among the 9 arrested — was actively indulging in fundraising and a few members of the gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. The plans included travelling to Kashmir for delivering the weapons. Saturday’s arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country, said NIA.

The nine arrested accused have been identified as — Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas & Mosaraf Hossen, all three currently based in Ernakulam, Kerala; besides Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal & Atitur Rehman, all r/o Murshidabad, West Bengal. All nine, including those arrested in Kerala, are from West Bengal.
NIA had earlier learnt about an inter-state module of Al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India including West-Bengal and Kerala and registered a case in this regard on September 11, 2020. The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks at vital installations in India with an aim to kill innocent people and strike terror in their minds, said NIA.